====== Examples of CSV Outputs ======

===== Activity Centric =====

==== Full Activity Listing ====

=== Basic description ===

Giving the option of getting all the data for an activity in a single CSV row. 

=== Use case ===

A user wants to get an overview of the activities in a given sector and country. They look at the filtered data in a spreadsheet. 

If the user wants to explore a particular dimension of the data (e.g. results) in more detail, they make use of Google Refine to split out the rows of interest. 

=== Details ===

**One row per**: Activity

**Aggregation across the activity for**:
  * Each kind of transaction (in the default currency: i.e. don't double count if the same transactions are included in different currencies)
    * (Note that Version 1.02 of the IATI standard will [[standard:revision:1.02:changes_specification#transaction_type|introduce some new transaction types]])
  * Each [[http://iatistandard.org/codelists/budget_type|kind of budget]] (in the default currency)
  * Planned disbursements
**Concatenated values for:**
  * All multiple-value fields

Ideally, there should be the option to turn groups of fields on or off. For e.g. to exclude concatenated transactions. See [[http://iatistandard.org/activities-standard/overview]] for possible group names. 

**Additional columns for:**
  * Original file
  * Last updated
  * Provenance information

**Example file:** //to be created//

===== Transaction centric =====

==== Full Transaction Listing ====

**One row per**: Transaction

**Columns for**:
  * Activity identifier
  * Currency (either default, or if specified at the transaction level)
  * Every possible [[http://iatistandard.org/activities-standard/financial-transaction/transaction|element for a transaction]]

**Aggregation**: None

**Concatenated values for:**
  * ? 

**Example file:** //to be created//

==== Transactions by Sector ====

=== Basic description ===
Provides a list of transactions. Each transaction is repeated against the vocabularies and sectors recorded for it's parent activities, along with the percentage of the activity apportioned the that sector (as a decimal)

=== Use case ===

A researcher is interested in how much is being spent by a given donor in particular sectors. 

  * The user downloads the data and opens it in a spreadsheet
  * The user filters the resulting data to only include rows for the sector vocabulary they are interested in;
  * The user adds a formula to multiply the total transaction value by the sector percentage, to give value_for_sector column
  * The user can use pivot charts to get a view on what donors are spending by sector

=== Details ===
**One row per**: Sector

**Aggregation**: None

**Concatenated values for:**
  * ? 

**Example file:** //to be created//

===== Organisation centric =====