===== XML Validation =====

==== xmllint ====
[[http://xmlsoft.org/xmllint.html|xmllint]] is a command line tool that can be used to check xml files for validation against the IATI Standard xml schemas.

=== Examples ===
Test an xml file against a schema  
  
  xmllint --noout --schema  http://iatistandard.org/downloads/iati-activities-schema.xsd some_data_file.xml
  xmllint --noout --schema  http://iatistandard.org/downloads/iati-organisations-schema.xsd some_data_file.xml
  
To send the errors to a file

  xmllint --noout --schema  http://iatistandard.org/downloads/iati-activities-schema.xsd some_data_file.xml 2> errors.txt
  
To make an XML file more readable in your text editor:

  xmllint --format --recover input_file.xml > output_file.xml
 

==== IATI-Data-Spotter ====
/* Please provide a brief description of the tool, and upload a screenshot if possible. Include details of the tool creator. */
This is a PHP application that can be run on a web-server to run checks over batches of data. \\
Currently the source code is available, but there is not a public interface.\\
The application parses XML files into memory before running routines so can be quite memory intensive.\\
Creator: [[community:user:caprenter]]

=== Detailed Description ===
/* Provide additional details here */

=== Documentation ===
/* Provide links to documentation, or use the wiki to develop documentation of this tool. */
Available from the repository. See below.

=== Links, source code and development plans ===
/* Please provide links to any source code, additional resources, or development plans*/
https://github.com/caprenter/IATI-Data-Spotter

There is discussion about whether or not a public interface should be added to the tool to enable people to upload their own files and check them themselves, or whether this should just be a public interface onto all the data in the [[http://iatiregistry.org|registry]], or both.