Situated just minutes from the entrance to Jerusalem, the Crowne Plaza Hotel is a leading Jerusalem hotel and is a city fixture that stands out against the Jerusalem horizon. Towering above the adjoining properties, the hotel is very close to major tourist destinations such as the Israel Museum, the Supreme Court and the Knesset building, and only minutes away from other important locations to visit such Jerusalem's old city and Yad Vashem. Contact Travel Deal at  [[http://www.traveldealisrael.com|travel dealisrael]]  for all your Israel travel needs! As one of the tallest buildings in the city, the Crowne Plaza offers breathtaking views of the surrounding areas and spectacular sunsets from the higher floors. It's in the vicinity of many restaurants and puts visitors in close proximity to virtually every nook of the Jerusalem landscape. There are buses nearby, and it's fairly close to the new light rail system. There is parking available for guests, but taxis are abundant, and it's fun to walk wherever you can, as every step in Jerusalem is a step into history. As part of the well-known Crowne Plaza chain of international hotels, the hotel features high level amenities such as mini bar and cable TV in each room and Wi-Fi available throughout the hotel. Sports enthusiasts will enjoy their stay, as there is a wide variety of sporting options within the hotel, including a miniature golf course and tennis courts on the premises. One special feature is the swimming pool with retractable roof that is open for the summers and closed and heated for the winters. The hotel is great for families and has a playground on the manicured lawns, plus the Freckles Club for your cute kiddies. It caters to business people as well, with a luxurious Business Center overlooking Jerusalem and offering a variety of services, including fax and copy. Selected rooms are furnished with desks and lamps. Well-appointed conference rooms are available for business meetings and special events. For all guests there's a spa, with massage and treatment rooms, and a well-equipped gym featuring top of the line gear in addition to aerobics and yoga classes. There's a sauna for post-exercise rest and relaxation as well. There are three room types to suit each guest: Standard, Executive club and Suites. The hotel serves a fabulous Israeli breakfast including breads, pastries, quiches, cheeses, fish, salads, fruits and more. The kitchen is kosher under the supervision of the Rabbanut of Jerusalem, and there is a restaurant on site featuring traditional Israeli cuisine. The Crowne Plaza is one of the best cheap Jerusalem hotels. Servicing groups, families and individuals, it's a prime choice for your next stay in Jerusalem.