====== AidView API ======
/* Please provide a brief description of the tool, and upload a screenshot if possible. Include details of the tool creator. */

The AidView API is an eXist data store of IATI data, with an API layer providing support for:
  * Retrieving individual project data
  * Accessing aggregated statistics
  * Free text searching over the data

It is primarily developed for the the [[tools:aidview:start|AidView]] application, but is accessible for addition prototype development.

<note warning>
Note: API location and functionality is subject to change. Please contact [[community:user:timdavies|Tim Davies]] if you are using the API to be notified of changes.
</note>

===== Detailed Description =====
/* Provide additional details here */

AidView uses an API which stores a sub-set of the data from the IATI Registry and is currently accessible at http://datadev.aidinfolabs.org/xquery/woapi.xq

The data in the API has been through an import pipeline which:
  * Normalises currency to USD
  * Creates total project values based on the highest of total commitments, total disbursement or total spending
  * Pre-computers OLAP cubes for a number of values to support faster queries

Data stored in the API is manually refreshed, and editorialised, so the main corpus of data only includes data appropriate for display in the AidView interface (e.g. recent projects).
 
An open source version of the code for the AidView API is due soon. 

===== Documentation =====
/* Provide links to documentation, or use the wiki to develop documentation of this tool. */


===== Links, source code and development plans =====
/* Please provide links to any source code, additional resources, or development plans*/