====== OIPA ======

OIPA stands for Openaid IATI Parser and API. It has been developed within the [[tools:open_aid:start | OpenAid NL]] project and runs as an open webservice.


===== Detailed Description =====

OIPA enables IATI standard compliant datasets to easily parse and interface IATI compliant data. OIPA runs as a webservice, which is being reffered to as the OIPA network. OIPA consists of several software components which are dependent on each other.

  * Parser makes the IATI compliant available xml datasets available in the non xml database MySQL.
  * The datamodel residing in MySQL contains different IATI sets that have been mapped in the parser.
  * The API enables web-platforms to easily interface using REST calls to pick up data.



===== Documentation & examples =====

Check the [[http://search-api-data.openaid.nl/api/documentation/|OIPA documentation]] and create some REST yourself. 

REST calls examples OIPA network:

  * http://search-api-data.openaid.nl/api/data/activity/ | Shows alls activities by Dutch ministry of Foreign affairs
  * http://search-api-data.openaid.nl/api/data/activity/88/ | Shows specific id of an activity
  * http://search-api-data.openaid.nl/api/data/activity/?recipient_country_code=ZW&total_budget__gte=2000000 |Shows activities in a specific country (ZW) with a budget over €2.000.000
  * http://search-api-data.openaid.nl/api/data/activity/?description__contains=human%20rights | Shows all activities where the description contains “human rights”
  * http://search-api-data.openaid.nl/api/data/activity/?sector=Public%20finance%20management |Shows all activities in the sector “Public finance management”
  * http://search-api-data.openaid.nl/api/data/transaction/?activity_id=2 | Shows all transactions within a activity (id=2)
  * http://search-api-data.openaid.nl/api/data/transaction/?activity_id=2&transaction_date__gte=2010-12-31 | Shows all transactions within a activity (id=2) and later than 2010-12-31
  * http://search-api-data.openaid.nl/api/data/transaction/?activity_id=2&transaction_date__gte=2009-12-31&value__gte=300000 | Shows all all transactions within a activity (id=2) and later than 2009-12-31 and budget more than €3.000.000 
  * http://search-api-data.openaid.nl/api/data/activity/?description__contains=water&title__contains=DMV|RESKI | 
  * http://search-api-data.openaid.nl/api/data/activity/?description__contains=water&title__contains=DMV&title__contains=RESKI |



After decoding the JSON into variables, the data can be used in a HTML page (eg create table). Nearly every language has a JSON decoding library. Here are some examples:

  * PHP: http://php.net/manual/en/function.json-decode.php
  * Python: http://docs.python.org/library/json.html
  * JAVA: http://code.google.com/p/google-gson/


===== Links, source code and development plans =====
/* Please provide links to any source code, additional resources, or development plans*/