====== Linked Data Conversion ======
/* Please provide a brief description of the tool, and upload a screenshot if possible. Include details of the tool creator. */

An initial workflow for converting IATI data into Linked Data, and uploading this to a triple store, has been developed in prototype. 

A copy of the data is hosted on the Kasabi platform at [[http://kasabi.com/dataset/iati/]].

<note warning>
The [[http://kasabi.com/dataset/iati/|Kasabi triple store]] of IATI data is not updated on a scheduled or regular basis. It is possible this data may be behind or out of of synchronisation with current IATI data. Please contact [[community:user:timdavies|Tim Davies]] to request the data is refreshed if you have an application that requires this. 
</note>

<note important>
The current linked data model is draft, and is likely to change.  Please add a note to this page with details of any tools using the linked data so that we can inform users in advance of proposed changes. 
</note>

===== Detailed Description =====
/* Provide additional details here */

Linked data can support the integration of diverse data sources and extra contextual information linked to IATI project information, as well as providing a flexible way to query IATI data via SPARQL. 

As an XML standard, IATI does not yet have an agreed linked data vocabulary, but a [[http://www.aidinfolabs.org/archives/582|proof of concept has been established]], and a proposal has been made for [[http://support.iatistandard.org/entries/21180347-linked-data|updates to the standard to better accomodate linked data]].
===== Uses =====

The [[http://r4d.herokuapp.com/|Research for Development]] prototype makes use of IATI linked data and research data to present a widget that queries that data via SPARQL to find research related to a given IATI ID. 

===== Documentation =====
/* Provide links to documentation, or use the wiki to develop documentation of this tool. */

Documentation on running the conversion scripts to grab data from the IATI Registry, convert it to RDF, and upload to the Kasabi platform (and the source code for doing so) is [[https://github.com/practicalparticipation/International-Development-Linked-Data-Tools-|provided on GitHub]].

Documentation on using Kasabi to access and explore linked data is [[http://kasabi.com/doc/developer-guide|provided on the Kasabi platform]]. 

Details of the original proof of concept [[http://www.aidinfolabs.org/archives/582|are on AidInfoLabs]].
===== Links, source code and development plans =====
/* Please provide links to any source code, additional resources, or development plans*/

Source code is [[https://github.com/practicalparticipation/International-Development-Linked-Data-Tools-|available on GitHub]].