====== Who is publishing ...? ======
/* Please provide a brief description of the tool, and upload a screenshot if possible. Include details of the tool creator. */
Tries to answer the question:
"Who is publishing 'x' IATI activity element?" e.g. location or results info.
Creator: [[community:user:caprenter]]
===== Detailed Description =====
/* Provide additional details here */
PHP based application \\
Requires a daily update of IATI data. Needs to run a processing script to generate data on the data, which is stored and can be displayed to end users. As such it has to:
  * Track changes to the registry
  * Automate downloads of updated files
  * Run a time consuming script over all IATI data
  * Agree what data is processed and stored by the previous script
  * Make the results available to a web application

At the moment it does this in parts that sometimes need to be manually pushed together. \\
BUT it is a process that I think others might replicate. As such the process may be more important than the application.


===== Documentation =====
/* Provide links to documentation, or use the wiki to develop documentation of this tool. */
Currently it is bundled inside:
https://github.com/caprenter/IATI-Data-Spotter
see the **where_is** directory

===== Links, source code and development plans =====
/* Please provide links to any source code, additional resources, or development plans*/
Demo here:\\
http://bntest.vm.bytemark.co.uk/david/iati/batch/where_is

This should link into the development of other 'data on the data' tools