======Changes Specification======

Formal proposals under consultation can be found at: \\
[[http://support.iatistandard.org/forums/21131653-first-decimal-upgrade|http://support.iatistandard.org/forums/21131653-first-decimal-upgrade]]

This is a working document. As proposals are refined and finalised they will be prepared here. For discussion and comment please use the forum via the links provided.
=====Revision 1.02 details=====

====Schema Changes====
http://support.iatistandard.org/entries/21180347-linked-data
==Required Change==
This is a change to the [[http://iatistandard.org/downloads/iati-activities-schema.xsd|iati-activities-schema.xsd]]. \\
It requires:
The addition of a attribute to the the <iati-activities> element: iati-activities/@linked-data-default (0..1) - a URI path upon which an activity identifier can be appended to get a dereferenceable URI for any activity contained within a file.  
The addition of an attribute to the <iati-activity> element: iati-activity/@linked-data-uri (0..1) - a URI for a given activity (over-rides iati-activities/@linked-data-default if set)

== Guidance ==

IATI publishers are not obliged to publish their own Linked Data. However, if a publisher chooses to publish linked data about their IATI activities then allowing them to declare where this data is published would support discovery of it, and any additional information they may choose to publish as Linked Data alongside it. For this reason the above-mentioned two new optional properties into the IATI standard are being added. Where a publisher declares using one of these properties that authoritative linked data is accessible for an activity then consuming applications that are generating Linked Data from an IATI XML file should assert an owl:sameAs relationship to the relevant URI.
===Document Link and Language Schema Error===
http://support.iatistandard.org/entries/21179937-document-link-and-language-schema-error

==Required Change==
This is a change to the [[http://iatistandard.org/downloads/iati-common.xsd|iati-common.xsd]]. \\
It requires:
  -  the removal of the language //attribute// from the document-link element 
  -  the addition of a language //element// as a child of the document-link element: document-link/language/text() (0..1)  -  The ISO 639 code for the language of the document

A sample diff is shown below:
<code:XML>
<xsd:element name="document-link">
  <xsd:annotation>
    <xsd:documentation xml:lang="en">
        A categorized link to an external document.
    </xsd:documentation>
  </xsd:annotation>
  <xsd:complexType>
    <xsd:choice minOccurs="1" maxOccurs="unbounded">
      <xsd:element ref="title"/>
      <xsd:element name="category" type="codeReqType">
        <xsd:annotation>
          <xsd:documentation xml:lang="en">
              A category into which this document falls, using the
              IATI document category code list.  Must be specified at
              least once, and may be repeated for multiple categories.

              For the value of the @code attribute, see
              http://iatistandard.org/codelists/document_category
           </xsd:documentation>
        </xsd:annotation>
      </xsd:element>
      <xsd:any namespace="##other" processContents="lax"/>
    </xsd:choice>
    <xsd:attribute name="url" type="xsd:anyURI" use="required">
      <xsd:annotation>
        <xsd:documentation xml:lang="en">
            The target URL of the external document, e.g. "http://www.example.org/doc.html".
        </xsd:documentation>
      </xsd:annotation>
    </xsd:attribute>
    <xsd:attribute name="format" type="xsd:string" use="optional">
      <xsd:annotation>
        <xsd:documentation xml:lang="en">
            The MIME type of the external document,
            e.g. "application/pdf".  A partial list of MIME types
            appears at http://iatistandard.org/codelists/file_format
        </xsd:documentation>
      </xsd:annotation>
    </xsd:attribute>
-    <xsd:attribute name="language" type="xsd:language" use="optional">
-      <xsd:annotation>
-        <xsd:documentation xml:lang="en">
-            The ISO 639 language code for the target document, e.g. "en".
-        </xsd:documentation>
-      </xsd:annotation>
-    </xsd:attribute>
+    <xsd:element name="language" type="codeType">
+      <xsd:annotation>
+        <xsd:documentation xml:lang="en">
+            The ISO 639 language code for the target document, e.g. "en".
+        </xsd:documentation>
+      </xsd:annotation>
+    </xsd:element>
    <xsd:anyAttribute processContents="lax" namespace="##other"/>
  </xsd:complexType>
</xsd:element>
</code>
 
== Reason ==
The language refers to the language of the document itself, so an element is a more appropriate way of refering to this, rather than using a language attribute. This is thought to have been as it is due to an error.

== Demo ==
Not yet available - url to come.

==Changelog text==
Removed language attribute from, and introduced an new language child element to, the document-link element

====Code list Changes====

http://support.iatistandard.org/entries/21090158-add-openstreetmap-as-gazetteer-agency

http://support.iatistandard.org/entries/21179867-transaction-type-element-needs-additonal-code-options

http://support.iatistandard.org/entries/21179746-document-link-and-aid-allocation-policies


====Fixes====

http://support.iatistandard.org/entries/21790496-alter-documentation-within-the-schema-that-is-out-of-date

http://support.iatistandard.org/entries/21179707-hierarchy-attribute-should-be-changed-from-string-to-integer-in-xsd
