===== Opening up UN-Habitat’s data to the public =====

We recognise that there is a positive correlation between information transparency and aid effectiveness.

This website has been built using open source technology. The search and project display functionality is powered by [[tools:oipa_v2:start|OIPA]] and the content management system is [[http://wordpress.org/|WordPress]]. All content is licensed under a [[http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/3.0/deed.en_US|Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 3.0 Unported License]] which means that you can do whatever you want with it as long as you credit UN-Habitat in your work and publish it as creative commons.

===== History =====

In September 2012, UN-Habitat began publishing project and programme data on this website. Our starting point is to “publish what we can”. This means that we actively make information about UN-Habitat programmes and operations publically available except in minimal cases where the information has been deemed confidential as set out in the Publishing Policy. The site is currently in beta version and we will improve our data quality and reporting processes over time.

The Open UN-Habitat site was launched in September 2012.

In Phase 1 (September to December 2012), projects approved since 1 January 2012 will be added to the site.

In Phase 2 (January 2012 to December 2013) all remaining current projects will be added. New projects will be added as they are approved.

In Phase 3 (January 2014 onwards) projects will be added as they are approved. Project documentation for new projects will be added as it becomes available.


===== Links =====

[[http://open.unhabitat.org/|UN-HABITAT opendata site]]